# bingo

Creates randomized bingo board images using [ImageMagick](https://imagemagick.org).

## Requirements

ImageMagick must be installed in order for this script to work.

Additionally, the `magick` executable of ImageMagick must be reachable by the script. If necessary, the directory it is installed in may need to be added to the `PATH` environment variable.

## Usage

Lines are defined in `bingo.txt`, found in the same directory as the `bingo.ps1` script file.

The script only looks at lines that begin with `- `, which will be trimmed from the bingo board.

## Mutations

Lines can contain mutations. Mutations allow you to define different versions of the same line.

Mutations are marked by brackets (`[` and `]`), with each mutation being separated with pipes (`|`).

For example: `Line [A|B|C]` will create `Line A`, `Line B`, and `Line C`.

Lines can have multiple mutations. This will result in all combinations of all mutations being generated.

For example: `Line [A|B] version [1|2]` will create `Line A version 1`, `Line A version 2`, `Line B version 1`, and `Line B version 2`.

Bingo boards will only contain one mutation of each line.

## Tiles

Tile images are generated by ImageMagick. These consist of the text, written in [Arial](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arial), with a slight padding and a black border.

When the `bingo.ps1` script is executed, it will generates tile images corresponding to each permutation of each line. These will be located in the `.\tiles\` directory.

Tile images are named like so: `{originalLineTextHash}_{mutatedLineTextHash}`. This way, each tile image will have a unique name derived from the text it displays, with the first part of the image file being shared among all mutations of a given line.

This is used to allow the bingo board generation code to group together all mutations of the same lines, in order to avoid the bingo board having mutations of the same lines.

A tile image will not be generated if the image already exists. This means that, once all tile images have been generated, bingo board images will be generated without needing to generate any additional tile images.

## Boards

The final bingo board images will be generated by randomly selecting 25 tile images, and creating a "[montage](https://imagemagick.org/script/montage.php)" of them. Assuming at least 25 tile images exist, this will result in a 5x5 grid of tiles.

When a bingo board has been created, the image file will be launched by using the `Invoke-Item` cmdlet.

Board images are stored in the `.\boards\` directory, named after the timestamp they were created at.
